Can you can you offer a similar
explanation for why you would use a term
like cultural genocide? Just Just cuz
that's [music] again a phrase that's
associated with some pretty far-right
perspectives on the world. I'm thrilled
that you asked this because I've used it
twice.
>> I don't know if you're thrilled, but
you're you're you're okay that
>> it's it's great because I can show how
>> [music]
>> totally disingenuous my critics have
been.
Is there an [music] epidemic of
anti-white discrimination in America?
>> Are you a white male who's experienced
discrimination?
>> who says he was fired for being a white
male.
>> calling reverse [music] discrimination.
>> And who is more fixated on identity
politics, the left
>> Identity politics [music] has become an
anchor on how the Democratic Party
functions.
>> They believe the highest title you can
have is your pronoun.
>> I'm white, I'm a dude, and I'm for
Harris. or the right? Things were a lot
better back [music] when white men were
not being discriminated against.
>> white people were so openly attacked and
denigrated.
>> A generation of white men have had
[music] their career prospects
obliterated.
>> My guest this week wrote a book arguing
that white Americans are in danger
[music] of becoming second-class
citizens.
>> You can't save the country without kind
of addressing this. This is an idea with
a lot of currency on the contemporary
right, but it became the source of a lot
of controversy [music] when the Trump
administration nominated him for a State
Department job.
>> Your belief is that white Americans face
more discrimination,
um, at least prior to the Trump
administration fixing this, than black
Americans. On average, Senator, yes,
that's correct, and I'm not running away
from that statement at all.
Jeremy Carl, welcome to Interesting
Times. Thanks so much for having me,
Ross.
>> Thank you so much for being here. So,
you are a senior fellow at the Claremont
Institute, which is a well-known,
especially in the Trump era,
conservative think tank. Uh, your
background, right, is in environmental
policy and energy? Yeah, that's right. I
mean, my formal background is in nothing
to do with any of the things for which
I'm best known now, but I I went and did
many years of graduate study and have
written books and articles on
environment and energy policy and served
in the Department of Interior in Trump
one. Right. And then after Trump won,
you did a kind of career pivot where you
became a guy who writes about anti-white
discrimination, multiculturalism,
immigration.
These are ideas that have a lot of
currency on the right and they've become
the focus of controversy around your
nomination to be Assistant Secretary of
State for International Organization
Affairs. Did I get that right?
>> it. I got it right. Okay. It's a
mouthful. Talk about the job that you
were nominated for. What would you be
doing?
>> So,
it's a job that oversees basically
everything that we're doing at the
United Nations, but also
has a supervisory role at things like
the G7, the G20, the World Bank, other
sorts of major international
organizations that we're a part of. It
really hearkens back a little bit more
frankly to an earlier portion of my
career. I spent almost a decade as the
right-hand man for the late Secretary of
State George Shultz and did a lot of
work in this field there. It was one of
the reasons why when the State
Department came to me and approached me
that I was interested. Obviously, on
issues like migration or other things,
it does touch on some of the things that
we're talking about here, but I think
one of the the sad things about the way
my hearing was conducted was that I got
almost nothing substantive about like,
how would you do this job? Of which I
had all sorts of answers and really it
just kind of became a big, you know,
gotcha about some tweet
that I'd done and that's just you know,
it's an unfortunately sad reality of our
current politics. So, you're up for that
nomination as we have this conversation.
Yeah. Um you've received criticism and
skepticism from some Republicans as well
as from Democrats. Possibly by the time
this airs, we will know the fate of your
nomination, but we're going to talk
about the arguments that have been the
source of controversy.
In 2024, you wrote a book called The
Unprotected Class, which is about
discrimination against white Americans.
So, tell me
in broad terms, the argument of the
book. Yeah, so the title of the book
comes from the notion in civil rights
law that you have protected classes, and
those are basically classes uh of people
that you can't discriminate against, and
that can have to do with disability, it
can have to do with race, it can have to
do with gender identity, etc. Um
in theory, whites actually are a
protected class, and you're beginning to
see under the great leadership of
Harmeet Dhillon, a friend of mine, at
the Department of Civil Rights right
now, that we're actually maybe finally
seeing that, but historically,
functionally, it hasn't been that way.
And so, the argument of the book,
essentially, is I basically look at what
I think is the rise of anti-white
discrimination and racism in the United
States. I look at everything from the
way that we talk about crime to how we
look at the entertainment sort of more
informally, to how we educate people,
the health care system, and really
document in each chapter by subject
where I think this is going on, why I
think it's important, and what we should
do about it. So, let's start with the
most concrete elements of the argument.
Let's talk about the law. Sure.
>> Um and changes to American law in the
last 50 or 60 years Sure. that you think
have enabled anti-white discrimination.
So, start with the 1960s and 1970s.
>> Right. What happened then?
Yeah, well, and I think this is I'm glad
that you've raised this because it's an
important um
kind of departure point, and I'm
actually slightly to the left of people
who are more interested in really taking
a hatchet to civil rights law in some
cases than I am. I mean, yes, there are
some significant reforms we need to do
in civil rights laws, even some
fundamental reforms, but that actually
what we need to do is utilize civil
rights law and apply it equally. So, if
you look at the Civil Rights Act,
obviously that's the beginning, but I
think it goes off the rails pretty
quickly. In 1971, I believe, you have
Griggs versus Duke Power, which is an
important case that kind of creates a
doctrine called disparate impact. And
you know, to not have the lawyers shoot
me, I'm just going to say I'm
oversimplifying it dramatically here for
the purposes of this discussion, but
basically what disparate impact does is
if you sort of have a reference
population applying for something,
whether it's housing or a job or
something else, and then the population
you select ends up looking very
different than that reference
population, you have to go prove a bunch
of things to basically show that you
didn't discriminate and that it didn't
have a disparate impact on that group.
And that has been a metaphorical sword
of Damocles over all sorts of things.
And the interesting thing about it is if
you go back in the civil rights law and
the debate over the 1964 Act,
there's a concern by some of the people
who are skeptical about the Act that
something like this could happen. But in
1971, just a few years later, the
Supreme Court in fact effectively
enshrines that in the law. So, just
just to make this as clear as possible,
the Civil Rights Act says you're not
allowed to discriminate on the basis of
race. And obviously that applies to
discrimination against a qualified
African-American
>> Sure. job applicant and on paper it
applies to whites as well.
Then disparate impact means that what?
Companies find themselves so focused on
making sure that they aren't guilty of
discriminating against black people or
my racial minorities generally that they
can't help discriminating against
qualified white applicants?
>> Well, well, effectively let me explain
that Yeah, I mean, let me get into the
specifics of the case a little bit. So,
the particular case was um
the Duke Power, which was a a southern
uh power company in in North Carolina,
had
put some tests that they considered to
be relevant, genuinely relevant, uh to
um determine who is going to advance in
uh jobs. And there was no intent alleged
racially discriminatory intent of those
tests whatsoever. But you wound up with
a disproportionately white group of
people who passed the test. And what the
Supreme Court effectively says in Griggs
versus Duke Power is even if there is no
intent to discriminate,
you are uh on the wrong side of the law
by doing that. Right. So, this is one
category. Then you have
corporations and businesses that are
afraid of being sued for racial
discrimination. Qualified white
applicants lose out to less qualified
minorities. Correct. That's distinct
somewhat, right, from affirmative action
programs that are sort of explicitly
race-conscious. Right. But those are
also part of your story, right?
>> No, absolutely. So, the whole
affirmative action um kind of regime,
the whole DEI regime that again this
administration, in my view, is totally
correctly doing a great job of rooting
out. Um I mean, all of those things sort
of come together and I do think that
there's a significant break in about
2013 to 2014 right where we get into a
much more radical uh sort of world than
where we've been. But but prior to that
point, just to stay with the nature of
the discrimination, that means that
people competing for federal contracts
>> Yeah. who are white-owned businesses or,
you know, white competitors are being
unfairly discriminated against because
there are rules that advantage
minority-owned businesses, right?
>> Absolutely. And then you have college
admissions
>> Yes. that basically say you can consider
race in some form as a means to
diversification.
Right. Which disadvantage white
applicants there too.
Okay. I'm just trying to set out some
categories of what we're talking about
at the outset. Is there anything else we
should
>> should say at the outset, in no way am I
saying that there was that like
everything was really happy before the
Civil Rights Law ruled in, that there is
was not past discrimination against
racial minorities, that there's not
current discrimination against racial
minorities. All those things can be
reality and yet we can still have a
system
that is unfairly weighted against white
Americans today. So just and just to
understand a little more about your view
of that part of the story, the history
of discrimination,
segregation, slavery, everything going
back around black Americans.
Lyndon Johnson's famous case for
affirmative action, right, was that you
know, you have hundreds of years of
brutal oppression and it's unfair to
pass a Civil Rights Act and declare that
we're magically a meritocracy. You need
some kind of extra boost.
>> Yeah. What do you make of that argument?
So I think there's a couple things and I
think it's really time dependent, right?
So I believe Sandra Day O'Connor after
the original affirmative action case,
which was where you got college
affirmative action, it's it's
effectively affirmed by the court and
Sandra Day O'Connor I believe sort of
says, well, but in two decades this will
kind of be
not necessary anymore. I don't think
that's a crazy way to look at it. I'd
probably be a little more aggressive on
the no side, but I don't think that it's
wrong. I think the the best way to do
this is to take into account the
socioeconomic standing rather than just
the race of the person involved. So, you
know, like the
the son of major African-American CEO is
not necessarily that disadvantaged, but
obviously if somebody is poor and in the
inner city, then they are more
disadvantaged and I I have a problem
with
taking that into account. In in what? In
admissions to to elite universities?
Like where where does
>> In anything. I mean, I think it's just
like I mean, honestly, it's just a way
of getting good people, right? If
somebody has really come from a terrible
background, but they've gotten like 90%
of the way there as compared to somebody
who had a lot of privileges growing up,
then I think you want the better person
and that's likely to be the the person
who's come over it, but I don't think
that race
needs to directly play into that.
Furthermore, I I would kind of point to
the African-American conservative
intellectual Thomas Sowell who talks
about the quest for cosmic justice,
right? And the sort of danger of doing
that too much, right? So,
in no way am I saying like, oh, there's
some perfect way to balance the scales,
right? But I think just as a general
rule in a multi-ethnic society, we want
to treat everybody as much as we can the
same regardless of race. And as soon as
you open up the Pandora's Box of we're
going to favor this race here, we're
going to favor that race there, you wind
up in a lot of problems. So, the term
multi-ethnic society is a useful bridge
to the next point, right? Because one of
the realities around civil rights
debates and early debates about
immigration was that American culture at
that point was very much, you know, you
can look at this demographically, a
culture of two
two large groups.
>> Sure. Whites and blacks, right? There
obviously were other racial minorities
present, but in the world of 1950s
America, 1960s America, that was sort of
a
a core background dynamic. That changes
as immigration policy changes in the
late '60s.
How does immigration policy fit into
your story?
Well, it's huge and I think just for the
reasons you touched on, right? Because
people, I think younger people
especially don't have a sense of just
how dramatic the changes wrought by the
Hart-Celler Immigration Act of 1965,
which totally redid our immigration
system, were Just to kind of put numbers
on that, right? In 1960, which is the
last sentence we have before the
Hart-Celler Act, we were approximately
85.5, I think, percent um white. We're
maybe 10 and 1/2% African-American.
Don't shoot me if I'm off like a half
percent somewhere here or there. Of
Hispanics, 80% of them were US-born.
Half of them had lived in the US for
more than three generations as their
families. So, it's a very acculturated
group, for the most part. We are now at
a point where we're, you know, 57% white
non-Hispanic and 12 or 13%
African-American and then a whole bunch
of groups that were totally
you know, sort of marginal players in
the American story. I'm not saying that
in a judgmental way, just a factual way.
Who are now very, very major parts of
the American quilt. We have to deal with
that reality and, you know, build a
unified country out of it. But, it's a
very, very big change in what's a
relatively short period of time. But,
how does it actually relate to, again,
the core subject of your argument, which
is discrimination against white people?
How
how are white people discriminated
against by having more
Indian-Americans
or, you know, Asian-Americans or any any
other group whose numbers have
increased? Well, I I think that it's
just I mean, it's a nature I have,
again, always argued for civic
nationalism. I was attacked in the
Senate as, "Oh, I'm a white
nationalist." I mean, again,
in my book, I explicitly condemn white
nationalism completely overtly and and
I've done it many times. Um but but, you
know, the the reality is you have a more
multi-ethnic group. Groups are going to
organize in their own interests, often,
whether or not I think that's a good
idea or not. I I wouldn't prefer that,
but that's just the reality. Right. And
so, white Americans have often wound up
uh on the low end of that. You see a lot
of things right now being exploited with
H-1Bs, for example. And Harmeet Dhillon,
herself, an Indian-American, has been,
you know, on the front lines kind of
saying, "Hey, actually you can't just
advertise this job for for foreigners
mostly from India.
Um
you actually have to open this up to
Americans." So, is it primarily a matter
of issues like that where you have
companies exploiting the immigration
system to not hire
native-born Americans and that
disproportionately affects whites? Is
that Is that the core mechanism that
immigration changes things?
>> think that's one formal thing, but I
think the informal element, which I'm
not again I don't run away from it all,
is also important. I mean, we had a
particular
cohesive mainstream American culture.
Now, we can talk about multi-generation
Italians, etc., but normatively there
was a kind of mainstream American
culture in the 1950s, you know, Ozzie
and Harriet, baseball, you know,
whatever have you. And those traditions,
as you have more groups in, not because
those groups are bad, but just because
they are coming from a very different
perspective, become more attenuated. And
then all of a sudden you have a
non-English speaking halftime show at
the Super Bowl, which is kind of the the
grand carnival of America. And so, I do
think that that sort of thing matters,
and I think culture matters. Okay, but
that's just to be clear, that's not
discrimination. That's more, let's say,
alienation, right? That it creates a
more multicultural America is a culture
that
people who are attached to the normative
culture of the 1950s or 1960s feel less
at home in. Yeah. No, I mean, I think
there's formal things, there's less
formal things, and I I was just
addressing the less formal elements of
that argument, right? If I took 5
million white Americans and I moved them
to Thailand, maybe that's not even so
crazy at this point, right? Like it's
going to have an effect on Thai culture.
They may not like that, right? So, it's
I am challenging the notion per se,
quite explicitly, that diversity is our
strength. Is there something that's
different though about this period of
mass immigration versus periods in our
past. Certainly that the story of Irish,
Italian, Polish, whatever else
immigration is a big part of our story.
And certainly, you know, um my
my Yankee ancestors, right, in the early
19th century were probably not super
sympathetic to waves of Irish Catholics
coming over, felt alienated from the new
dispensation. Right.
>> We don't look back on that and say,
well, that, you know, was this
total betrayal of, um, you know, Yankee
Puritans or anything like that.
>> W- I- is this period different for some
reason? Well, I think there's two things
and and I don't disagree with sort of
what you laid out. You can go all the
way back to Benjamin Franklin
complaining about the German influence,
right?
>> Right. Which was concerning, to be
clear.
>> Having said that, I think that there are
a few differences. One is
the obvious visual differences in many
groups that are coming over create more
challenges to assimilation. Now, we have
a growing multiethnic group and I think
that's going to be a part important part
of this new American ethnicity that
we're creating.
>> What What do you mean by visual
differences?
>> Meaning Or people look different, right?
Like Or people they like if I'm from
Ireland and I go and I marry some old
stock English person, right? Like my
kids are not necessarily going to look
in an obvious way different, right?
Whereas, um, it's a more challenge when
you have what Canada would call visible
minorities. Now, with all the
demographic changes in Canada, that may
be a an outdated term at some point, but
um, I think that matters. I think it's
also important that people don't really
understand the immigration story. So,
there were huge periods of time that we
had very low immigration in this
country. And if you actually read
Democracy in America by Tocqueville,
he doesn't mention the word immigrant or
immigration even once in that book. The
US is 2% foreign born at that time and
it's really only after the failed
revolutions of 1848 that we begin to get
a substantial non-Anglo component. So, I
would say that
we've never been a quote unquote nation
of immigrants consistently. There've
been times where we have, there've been
times where we've been a nation of
settlers, but
this kind of notion that we've always
just for 400 years been assimilating
immigrants, I think that's not quite an
accurate story.
No, but we have we do have, I think, a
history of fairly successfully
getting over some, you know, pretty
substantial differences of
um
for want of a better word, physiognomy,
culture. I mean, I think I I guess I
just disagree with you. I think if you
go back and read the writings of
immigration critics and skeptics in the
late 19th and early 20th century, you'll
find plenty of people who write about
Southern Italians or Slavs in the way
that people who are skeptical of East
Asian or South Asian assimilation might
today. I'm just I'm just not sure that
that
that alone is
um
is a dramatic difference. Now, maybe
religion is a bigger difference.
>> It's it's a huge difference. And if you
read my book, you'll see this. I don't
have a simplistic view of how this
works, nor do I think that, "Oh my gosh,
it's impossible because now we have
people who look different, who have
different foods, and they have a
different religion that we can't do it."
We have to do it. I just think it's a
real challenge, and I think compounding
that challenge is the fact that we've
lost so much cultural confidence since
the 1960s, right? Like, there was no
question that
in the early 20th century, it's like,
you were going to assimilate, and you
could have the League of, you know,
United Latin American Citizens, right,
in the early 20th century, which is this
very patriotic, sort of uh
proto-Hispanic uh activist group, right?
That that's just like, "Yeah, we're
we're more patriotic even than you
guys." I don't think we have that, at
least as a unified position
today, right? The melting pot is very
unfashionable. Certainly, assimilation
on the left and in correct establishment
worlds like you and I have often existed
in is a very, very dirty word. And so, I
think it's just much more challenging
because of where we are culturally and
our lack of confidence culturally as a
as a nation right now. Do you think it's
challenging because of the structure of
affirmative action and civil rights law
in meaning that like if if you had your
way and a lot of forms of DEI were were
swept away, would that make assimilation
easier? Oh, absolutely. I don't I mean,
you're sort of teeing up my my my point
unintentionally, but or maybe
intentionally, I don't know, but
>> It's everything that happens on this
show is intentional, Jeremy.
But but yes, I mean, part of the the
problem is, right? Like you have an Igbo
from Nigeria, which is a very successful
group both in Nigeria and when they get
to the US, higher income, higher
educational attainment, obviously no
history of slavery here, and you're
going to walk in and give them very
substantial advantages because of the
color of their skin. And you actually
see American descendants of
slaves, complaining about this in the
context of well, like Harvard admissions
or something where you have a lot of
these African immigrants. But but beyond
that, I mean, again, if if a Hispanic
person, again, with no history of
slavery here personally or any sort of,
you know, they're they're coming here
for opportunity, and they walk in and
they're automatically advantaged over my
kids, yeah, that creates a huge
opportunity for resentment. It's one of
the real important reasons to get rid of
these sorts of
um
programs in my view.
Just to pick up a point you mentioned
earlier,
you think that there was a sort of
transformation or acceleration in
anti-white discrimination in the last 10
or 15 years? Is that fair? Yeah,
absolutely. What concretely changes in
terms of patterns of
hiring hiring discrimination, admissions
discrimination, what are we talking
about? Yeah. Well, I so I think and and
there was a piece in compact that got
some attention and I just all of a
sudden blanked on its name.
>> Jacob Savage, right? The piece called
The Lost Generation, which is about um
essentially sort of
what look like stark
uh stark inequities in hiring in what
you might call creative class
professions, academia, media, and
elsewhere that are specific to the last
10 years where it suddenly just becomes
really, really hard to get an
entry-level job in Hollywood or media if
you're white or if you're a white man.
That was the argument.
>> Right. And and and I think also
universities, right? And he he Right.
Hiring for tenure-track positions,
right? Yeah. And for somebody like me,
you know, I I went Yale, Harvard,
Stanford. I did all that stuff. As a
white guy, I'm I'm sort of core Gen X. I
was born in 1972.
There were certain things that I had to
navigate. There were certain things
where even early on I was certainly you
know, I wasn't a beneficiary of
affirmative action. But I could still do
it. It was a bigger impediment to my
career ultimately that I was a
right-winger than that my skin happened
to be white. Um but I talked to friends
of mine who are a decade or a decade and
a half younger or certainly any of the
20-somethings who are some of the
biggest fans of my book. And that is not
the case for them. It was very, very
different. They were really shut out of
all of these sorts of formal prestige
occupations effectively, even no matter
almost what their view.
>> I think the interesting thing is that
liberal whites, which is the subject of
my next book, have become far more
left-wing over the last decade plus on
all of these issues than actually
minorities are. It's one of the
fascinating elements of this discussion.
Yeah, and we're going to come back to
that cuz I want to talk about when we
talk about what white culture actually
means in in America. I have some
questions about that. But so that's so
that's a story of
intensification in anti-white
discrimination
that then yields the election of Donald
Trump, right? Yeah. The Trump
administration has gone much further
Right. than past Republican
administrations in rolling back
affirmative action.
>> Right. Attacking DEI programs.
Obviously, this follows on a Supreme
Court decision that made certain kinds
of affirmative action in higher
education presumptively
unconstitutional.
Do those changes sort of solve the
problem that you're describing?
Well, again, I think the team at Civil
Rights is doing amazing work right now.
They're really
pushing the envelope. My my hat is off
to them because what they're doing is
really hard. And they've and Harmeet has
often had to work with frankly, a
kind of legacy base of attorneys with a
very left-wing understanding of what
civil rights might look like. And so,
I've just been enormously impressed by
what the administration has done in this
area. Um that having been said, if you
look at the 2023 Supreme Court case that
made this illegal,
Asian Americans were chosen as the
plaintiffs for that case.
There are some reasonable reasons that
you might do that facially. The the gap
between Asian Americans and other groups
on their test scores
was the most of any group, more than for
white Americans than other groups. This
is in applications to Sure.
>> Harvard and elite institutions
generally, right? But I actually don't
think that that was the primary reason
they did it. I think it was because they
knew
that the the savvy plaintiff's attorneys
that
a
kind of boomer white Supreme Court
justices were just going to be
uncomfortable doing anything that looked
like they were advantaging white people.
And so, they sort of put this more
friendly Asian face on this to like make
it acceptable to them. However, now we
have a couple years of admissions data.
And what's happened is
Asian American percentages have gone up
very significantly at these schools.
White percentage, I believe, is actually
down a little bit. Certainly not up.
There are some there are some very I
have not looked at every single case,
but there is variation school to school
in this.
>> Yes. My sense from looking at other
elite colleges though is that it is
it is in some of the cases you're
describing a matter of
Asian-American
admissions going up
and white admissions staying somewhat
flat and black and Latino admissions go
down and those black and Latino
admissions or matriculation or whatever
else go up at state schools.
>> Right. But that's a just a dynamic where
if whites are being discriminated
against now it's
more
in the name of Asian-American
applicants. Is that Is that your view?
>> I think it that in this micro area, I
would say yes. I mean in fact, one of
the things I talk about in the
unprotected class is that you have both
intentional and unintentional
discrimination going on, right? Where
some of it is very specifically targeted
against whites. Although they don't put
it that way. It's sort of it's more
we're going to be for African-Americans
or Hispanics, but functionally it's the
same thing. Asian-Americans end up
getting caught up in a lot of that, but
there are also some things where it's
just like you can't be white to apply
for this scholarship and and Asians get
sort of folded in. So it's it's
different on a case-by-case basis.
Is there a way in which
though some of your analysis is kind of
the white conservative version of
disparate impact analysis, right? Like
we started out with you saying this is
it's a big problem that um the law says
that you know if you know, if you end up
with a
you know, a hiring pool that doesn't
look like the population of applicants
that sort of presumptively considered
racial discrimination at least in some
of these cases, but it sometimes seems
to me like conservatives are are doing a
kind of disparate impact analysis
for white people. They're saying you can
tell that people are discriminating
against white people
just because of like the mismatch.
>> But I I think the difference is I'm not
claiming just because of the mismatch.
It's because they have discriminated
actively against white people in the
immediate past and they're on the record
a million times.
They don't even necessarily They're it's
almost without shame. They effectively
say we want to continue to discriminate
against white people. I think that's the
difference.
>> usually utter that sentence. Would you
agree with that?
>> but they they say, you know, we need to
advantage BIPOC, you know, whatever,
which means guess who? Black indigenous
people of color for people who are not,
you know, familiar with the new lingo.
But guess who gets left out of that,
right? So I think the difference is
there really is intent. Disparate impact
was never designed to I mean, if you
have intent, if you can show that there
was intent to discriminate by race,
then, you know, disparate impact doesn't
figure into it. It's just illegal. But
like in the case of like a Hollywood
screenwriting shop, right? Right, where
you
go from a world where there's, you know,
five white guys out of 10 Right.
>> to, you know, to zero, there's no like
SAT score measurement and so on you can
do there, right? I I mean, to some
degree it seems like
the conservative is has to make some
version of that argument to say you can
tell there's discrimination there just
because suddenly there aren't any white
guys in the writers' room.
>> Well, because I'm not quite sure. I
mean, I get what you're saying. I'm not
saying there's absolutely zero to it. If
I made the strongest possible version of
my argument, I might grant you that, but
I think we have all sorts of cases that
people have said, "Yes, I as a white guy
was told to take my name off this script
that I had written because they didn't
want a white screenwriter, right? And I
did the work and somebody else got
credit." We have enough of those stories
to suggest that like this is a real
thing that is going on and certainly if
you look at say the Academy Awards in
which very few people know this, right?
In the last few years, there's all sorts
of explicit quotas of racial, not just
racial, but all sorts of things that you
have to check off.
Again, I just I think that we we've got
smoking guns here. It's not just I'm
saying oh well the number is different.
I'm saying it's wrong. So how does then
how does your side of the argument win?
Is it just a matter of having
Republican administrations with Donald
Trump's policies for long enough to
investigate and sue enough institutions?
What's what's the what's the the path to
victory, I guess, from your perspective?
>> Absolutely. So I mean I think one is
legal changes and we're seeing those
again through Republican
administrations.
One is a cultural change and just even
being able to talk about this issue.
When you used to say anti-white
discrimination, it was uncomfortable for
me. I was talking to Chris Rufo who's a
person who's been very prominent in this
and then he was one of the the endorsers
of my book. But when I first showed it
to him, he sort of
you know, he sort of puckered a little
bit because he's like, oh, you know,
anti-white, you know, can can we even
say that? And that's just where the
culture was. I don't have the Google
Ngram data yet cuz it's not updated, but
I can tell you that the use of the term
since I wrote my book of anti-white
discrimination and racism of of like
politicians and people who will call
that out by name has gone up a lot just
in the last
>> you're raising awareness. You're doing
you're doing call outs, right?
And I I feel like I've heard this I've
heard this language before. But just But
okay, but in the concrete,
you need the changes that the Trump
administration has made to stick over
time. Yeah. So I'd say here's the here's
the key thing. You have to go back and
look at civil rights law and how it
actually ended up winning.
And this is where I think again, it's
really important that I'm saying don't
throw the baby out with the bathwater as
far as civil rights law goes. Because
what happened is you have Brown v. Board
in 1954, okay?
School desegregation doesn't fully
happen probably till the late 60s. And
then of course you have some informal
re-segregation that happened since then,
but that's another story. What happens
in the interim is you get that win at
the Supreme Court and then you had to go
sue all the resisters one by one and say
you are going to comply with this. And
so right now that's kind of the face of
the battle that we're in. And so what
civil rights needs to do, what
right-wing groups need to do, is we need
to just sue people who are breaking the
law and make that painful for them. And
eventually over time, we're going to
bring them into compliance because it's
going to be painful for them not to
obey the law.
You mentioned earlier feeling like you
had been, you know, suffered more
professionally at times for being
right-wing than white.
Do you feel like you have been
discriminated against personally at any
point in your career as a white on
because of your race?
>> well, I mean, I just think obviously and
I mean I was able to overcome it
obviously to get into some good schools
and opportunities, but just as a point
of fact, obviously I was. I don't know
>> Just in the sense that like affirmative
action and diversity rules discriminated
against you when you applied.
>> Right. And then
I mean this is one of the toxic things,
right? It's actually
Talk about things that build up an
excess of unjustified white resentment.
So
Let's say you've got 100 white guys who
apply for something, right? And then it
goes to something
particular minority who at least on
paper would be less qualified, right?
Then you're going to be told, you know,
hey, we just we couldn't hire you cuz we
had to have X minority in this role,
right?
The reality is you might not have gotten
that anyway. There might have been 30
white guys who were better than you.
And so
it's a little bit like handicap parking
spots where people see them empty and
you're like, ah, you know, like if there
weren't this some handicap person there,
I would get it. No, you know, somebody
else would have taken Right.
>> the spot, right? So there's
>> So it's spread out, but I I think
that's, you know, you mentioned the sort
of discomfort with the language of
anti-white discrimination, right? That
when people talk about racial
discrimination, they associate it with,
you know, racial hostility, racial
slurs, like inter- racist interpersonal
dynamics. Right.
>> think that's part of this story? Like,
has America become racist against white
people in any way that's comparable to,
you know, sort of racial slurs against
black people or Mexicans or anything
else? Well, I I talk about this in my
entertainment chapter of the book in
particular, in which the ways in which I
think
kind of whiteness, not a phrase I love,
but I'm just kind of using it as a
placeholder, um has been stigmatized in
our modern entertainment. And this can
come from everything like Hamilton,
which is a a work that artistically
actually like a lot, but I think can be
interrogated racially, to use uh the
left-wing term, to um movies like uh
Black Panther. And if you look at some
of the racial politics around that, um
and again, I mean, I just I I have a lot
of very specific examples I get into in
the book. Now,
is that the equivalent of hostility of
Jim Crow South in the 1950s? No. Um but
is it there? I I do think that
whiteness, again, has become culturally
disfavored at least in certain elite
circles, um in recent years.
But that doesn't seem like racial
hostility. I I don't want to go through
16 different examples, right, from from
popular culture, right? But
like, if you go watch Gone with the
Wind, Right. right? And you watch the
portrayals of slaves in that movie, they
are just racist stereotypes, right?
>> Absolutely.
I don't I don't get that vibe
watching American pop culture in
the current age uh as regards white
people. Do you?
>> as I said, I I would I'm not saying I
mean, I just explicitly said I I don't
think it's as extreme as it was in the
other direction in the say early 20th
century. On the other hand, and I I cite
some data from Annenberg, which is
actually using it for
opposite purposes of how I'm using it,
they kind of look at
the demographics of people in every
mainstream movie and we white people
kind of wind up on the short end of the
stick. Now, it is a big culture.
Kid Rock can still go do his thing,
right? Like that there's certainly areas
in which um
obviously obviously like Tom Cruise is
off being the white fighter pilot here,
right? I'm not saying that doesn't
exist, but I think statistically that
tendency is still there and you know,
it's it's okay to call that out.
>> Is there any other area in the culture
where you feel like
this kind of legal structure of
discrimination cashes out in something
that is actually like overtly oppressive
and you know, you can
like something that would affect your
kids for instance like in their in
everyday life. Oppressive is a pretty
strong word. So I don't know that I
would go that far at least as a
generality. But again, you know, as
whites become a another minority in
America just one of many groups,
you could see the pressures pushing in
that direction over time. Um that's not
to say it's inevitable. I wrote the book
cuz I don't want that to happen. I think
uh if we ethnically balkanize around
various racial nationalisms,
it's going to be a disaster. We've got
to recreate
a common American culture and I think
that's that's frankly tricky because
we've had massive amounts of immigration
uh without enough time in my view to
assimilate them into American mores and
values and you've got a lot of people
uh who benefit from, you know, creating
that division. All right, let's pivot
there
back to your nomination. To what extent
do you think that your prominence and
your writings on this subject influence
why the Trump administration would offer
you a job? Like did they
>> Yeah.
would they have preferred that you take
a job focused on these areas, do you
think?
>> You know, I didn't get into that
discussion too deeply with them and I
want to be very very careful in not
misrepresenting the administration or
the State Department ever.
I've had fans just as a matter of record
in the White House in the State
Department at senior levels who really
like my work just in general. They
reached out to me and another group has
subsequently reached out to me after the
hearing saying, "Hey, we would love to
uh have you talk." So, I mean, I have
fans in those places.
I don't think they [clears throat]
wanted me to go in to necessarily, oh,
you know, like go put your agenda
vis-à-vis race. Think what they looked
at is they said, "Okay,
this guy is not afraid of shaking things
up. He's not afraid to take a
controversial position and stick to it.
He's not afraid to say go into a
sclerotic UN bureaucracy and say,
hey, we need to do things differently,
right?" Um and so, if that made a sense,
I think that's why I was potentially an
attractive candidate. It wasn't because
my view on X issue was the thing that
they were looking to drive. If they
were, I think I would have been working
in immigration or whatever else.
Now, I want to talk about sort of
two areas where I am
skeptical of those controversial views,
right? And I think anyone listening to
this conversation can sort of intuit
this
already from some of my questions, but I
guess I would say this just as a sort of
brief editorializing
interlude. I think the story that you
tell is broadly broadly correct. That
there was a long period in American life
um in the aftermath of the Civil Rights
era in which for a variety of reasons,
some defensible, some less so, there was
a kind of thumb on the scale
against white people, maybe especially
white men in various aspects of American
life.
Some of that was de facto, some of it
was formal.
I also think that that sort of soft
thumb on the scale became much more
intense in the last 10 years. So, these
are sort of points of broad overlap
between our perspective.
Where I'm skeptical is sort of twofold.
One is about sort of scale and intensity
and direness of the problem and the way
that conservatives and especially white
conservatives should talk about it the
kind of framing that you they should
use.
And the other related is about like how
white people and white conservatives
should think about white identity like
their sense of their own identity how
they label themselves. So let let's just
start with the question of scale and
again you've said you were
controversialist right but you know
what came up at what came up at the
Senate hearing and what you know sort of
circulated on the internet was not just
statements about the problems of
disparate impact right it is phrases
like cultural genocide.
You gave a speech to the National
Conservatism Conference in July of 2024
entitled on the persecution of whites in
America and one of the things you said
was American whites are victims of a
cultural
genocide.
A cultural genocide.
Where to start? It's using language
about replacement and the great
replacement in tweets that you had that
were deleted but I I assume that they
were
actually your tweets and I'll just give
one more automatically deleted by the
way I've always just deleted my tweets
quarterly for years had nothing to do
with trying to hide anything. Okay
but just to take you know one of the one
of the fuller quotes this was something
you wrote after a jury convicted January
6th rioters this is
you said I would rather be a black man
on trial for the assault of a white man
in 1930s rural Mississippi than I would
be a right-winger in DC today on trial
for political crimes.
Just on that last point I would note
that even if you think that those trials
were show trials and totally unfair to
January 6th defendants no one was to my
knowledge lynched in that context no one
was executed and so on right these are
sort of
banal banal points but
>> I can I address that particular one and
then we could get into it and I it's
totally fair of you to bring up
specifics and and a lot of things truly
were taken out of context. A few were
just my bads, right? They were idiocies.
But for example, let's take the one on
the Jim Crow one.
That was definitely a statement of
provocation. Now, obviously I'm not
equating in any real sense that there
were some very serious
miscarriages of justice. I mean I'm
using Jim Crow
>> in the Jim Crow South, Yeah, because
it's it's a provocative it's a everybody
agrees it was a horrible thing.
But that's kind of [clears throat]
in my role as a provocateur, that's the
sort of thing I'm talking about and you
know, Can you can you offer a similar
explanation for why you would use a term
like cultural genocide? Just just cuz
that's again a phrase that circulates
widely on the internet not just from you
but it's associated with some pretty far
right perspectives on the world.
>> So I'll I'll give you I'm I'm again I'm
thrilled that you asked this because
I've used it twice.
>> I don't know if you're thrilled but
you're
because it's it's great because I can
show how totally disingenuous my critics
have been. So the particular case that
was brought up at the Senate hearing
where I'd said this at a um
uh a conference.
I specifically say that I'm mostly just
kind of saying this I literally say to
troll the libs, right? And in fact, I
realized as I was saying wow, yeah,
persecution that's kind of edgy
uh that in my book I actually talk about
something even perhaps more extreme
America
American whites as being victims of a
cultural genocide.
And I'm suggesting this partially again
to troll any leftist media who might be
in the room. They'd be furiously
scribbling my unforgivable hate speech
in their notebooks. So I was immediately
taking some genuine ironic distance. I
don't actually think that we are in a
cultural genocide per se. However, and I
talk about this in my my
Raphael Lemkin who's the Polish Jewish
lawyer who invents the term genocide and
gets it recognized at the UN,
had a concept of cultural genocide. He
talks about
the takeover of the education system,
the destruction of monuments and
cultural symbols. Sort of goes on up and
down the list.
And a lot of those things you can point
to and say, "Hey, a lot of this is
happening in a slow motion way, which is
what I talk about in my book, um for
white Americans today. I'm trying to
kind of push people. Like, "Wow, you
know, like think about this just a
little bit, you know, and see how this
matches up with the
typology
of cultural genocide that was was used."
So, I don't think that we're there yet,
but I see some disquieting
things going on that make me concerned
about our trajectory.
>> And just just to be concrete, like you
mean, you know, dismantling monuments
not just to Confederate generals, but to
founding fathers.
>> Absolutely.
>> Right, like that kind of thing.
Absolutely. Yeah, so this is this is
where
I I'm curious what you think about this
in the context of actual right-wing
politics in the age of Trump. Yeah.
>> Right, where it just seems to me that a
lot of what the Trump administration,
not just what they have done, but sort
of the language around it, the
intensity, the kind of like, you know,
no enemies to the right and relatively
few friends in the center Right. mode
that they've sometimes embraced reflects
just this kind of extreme
pessimism. Like, I use the term black
pill. It just seems like there are a lot
of people on the right, maybe especially
young people, right, who
aren't using, you know,
cultural genocide just to troll the
libs, right? When they say the great
replacement, they don't mean like what
you were talking about earlier, the
anxieties of a historically dominant
majority in a diversifying country, they
mean like evil elites Yeah. are trying
to replace us with with immigrants in
this conscious scheme, right? Like
Right. there's a lot of that on on the
right. the last thing, not evil elites,
but I believe it's the conscious policy
of the Democratic Party to
hyper-diversify the country because they
perceive,
we'll see whether it actually works out
for them, that the the Hispanic vote
suggests that maybe it won't.
>> But but but see that's an example. You
said we'll see if it works out for them,
right? To me, yes, it clearly there has
been a period in Democratic Party
politics where the party decided that
more immigration would lead to more
Democratic votes and and that was good
for them. But that isn't But that isn't
actually one
one, I think that that is understandable
as a sort of normal part of ethnic
patronage politics, which is part of the
American tradition, which you can be
against, but it's not like But it's not
like But it's not like five guys, you
know, sitting in a room saying we hate
white people and we only want Hispanics
now. Right? One, two,
it it seems like the evidence of Donald
Trump himself is that this, you know, in
in the American context,
this is just not how politics works.
Like you end up getting a lot of
Hispanics who vote for Trump because
people assimilate, right? Like
shouldn't shouldn't there be a little
more, I guess, just sort of fundamental
optimism about like where things are
going than
the kind of language you're using would
suggest?
>> Well, again, if you read the end of my
book,
uh and I know, you you know, God bless
you, you got a million other things to
do. single word of your book, Jeremy,
and don't test me on it. But but I No, I
have ends on a very optimistic tone.
Right, but books there's books, right?
And then there's internet persona. And
there are plenty of people on the right
who have a tone in their books and then
a tone on social media. But the tone on
social media is a dominant tone in our
culture, maybe more important than the
tone on books.
It just seems like the things that
Democrats have plucked out and critiqued
in your writings are things that are
pervasive on the right, styles of
speaking. Yeah, I mean
there are a few things that they dug out
in their intellectual proctological exam
of everything I've ever tweeted or
written or said on a podcast that I was
really like, uh, you know, shouldn't
have said that, my bad. Uh, it does
happen. So, I'm not, you know, without
getting into each individual utterance,
right? Like I'm not going to certainly
defend everything I've said. I would
also say that, frankly, as a result of
this process, I have become more aware
of even though I consider tweets to be a
lot less important than books and
articles,
They're they're pretty important,
Jeremy. I hate to tell you this.
>> well, so, you know, like lesson lesson
learned, right? At least in the
discourse. Having said that, I want to
come back to something you said earlier
because I think it is important and
maybe a little bit of a different point
of difference for us.
Um
I actually view Trump as one of the main
engines of de-radicalization,
particularly of youth. Um because I
think there were a lot of these folks,
and I knew them, you were probably in
group chats, maybe, or talked to them,
or whatever, maybe not. Um
>> what you mean. With uh with sort of
these people who were very radicalized
and and sort of black-pilled, for lack
of a better term, um under the previous
administrations,
and they sort of despaired that they
could have any effect on the system at
all. And then Trump has come in and just
done things like do correct civil rights
law and, from my view, and do other
things. And now these people are saying,
"Oh, I don't need to come into some
weird,
you know, esoteric right-wing pagan
ethno-nationalism. I can just be a
normal person and advocate for things I
believe." So, I think that's something
that Trump has actually really been
attacked for that I think is the the
opposite is true. And the young people,
I think, who have some of these more out
there views,
they're just marginal politically. Like
I don't know anybody, and I know a few
people, right? Like who is in an actual
what I would consider a serious position
of responsibility in government
who I'm like, "Wow, you know, that
person's views are just from my
perspective like way, way dangerous and
outside of any sort of American
mainstream.
Obviously, some of your liberal
listeners will disagree with where I'm
drawing that boundary, but
>> Yes. I think I think
I don't I don't know, yeah, I don't know
I don't fully agree with that. I guess I
agree with you that
Trump himself is substantially less
radical than
important parts of the online right. And
I definitely agree with you that Trump's
victory
had a partially deradicalizing effect on
some people. At the same time, I think
there are people We'll we'll take an
example, very concrete example, Elon
Musk. Right.
>> is not in the administration right now,
held a very important administration
job.
>> Sure. I read Elon Musk's tweets about
issues that you're writing about race,
anti-white discrimination. He clearly
thinks the United States is in a kind of
South African position where there is
going to be this like white minority, a
very rapid time horizon, right, um in a
state governed by non-whites, that this
is this is this is the future.
So, one, that's a radical perspective.
Two, I just think it's obviously wrong.
Like, whatever is going to happen to the
United States is not going to be what's
happened in South Africa, the Could not
agree more, by the way.
>> Okay. Okay, good. So, so we're going to
Tell me tell me more about Our our our
bad case is not South Africa. No, we are
not going to wind up in a South Africa
type um situation. I think that it's it
is
uh wrong and foolish to suggest that we
are. Okay, good. So, that and that
brings me to my second related sort of
question for your argument, right? Which
is
just as a matter of political engagement
or sort of self-identification,
does it make sense for white
conservatives, white people generally,
to just think of their own identity in
those terms, right? To think about white
culture, for instance, another thing you
were asked about in your hearing, as
something that they should be attached
to or associated with. You have made
several statements about your worry
regarding the erasure of white culture
in America. In terms of broader
engagement with American politics or
American culture, is there anything
productive in thinking about your own
whiteness in those terms?
Yeah, I mean again, contrary to what was
thrown at me in the Senate. I mean I I
don't think I've ever used the term
white culture, maybe like once or twice
in a million words plus of interviews.
It's It's not that I think it's invalid.
In fact, the only good thing that came
out of the the hearing was there was
sort of an interesting discussion from
guys like Eric Kaufmann, who's a very
interesting scholar of race and
ethnicity, who reviewed my book
positively on like do we have a white
culture? Is it being discriminated
against? It's not a term that I prefer.
I prefer to talk, as I said at the
hearing, about our common American
culture, which is derived from European
cultures, but it's not European, and nor
is it exclusively racial to white
people. I think that's just a better way
of looking at the problem. I would say
um
beyond that, that um
the reason why you have to talk about
it, it's a little bit of a bifurcated
thing, and I think about this with my
own kids. I sort of tell them, it's
like, look, you need to understand that
this is out there. At the same time, you
cannot use it as an excuse, because
it'll just destroy you. That
discrimination is out there, but you
can't use it as an excuse.
>> it. You You got to You've got to sort of
have a bifurcated consciousness almost,
where where you're working against this
at some level, to the extent you can,
but you got to still be responsible for
your own life and making your own life
good. You cannot get into
a victim mentality. It's just It's very
toxic and self-destructive for your own
totally selfish
reasons. You just shouldn't do it. Um
having said that, right? Like I have
made my opinion. I've said it not once.
I've said it a hundred times. I'll say
it a hundred and one times here. I'm a
civic nationalist, I'm not an ethnic
nationalist or certainly not a racial
nationalist of any type.
However, I am not willing to let every
other group, racial group, play racial
politics and white people just sit there
and be victimized by that. Let's try to
focus on what unifies us as Americans
and let's slow down immigration so that
we can
kind of reconstitute whatever our new
common identity as a country is going to
be
and go from there. That's the way that I
think is going to do that, but I'm not I
I've done enough real politics that I
don't think that that comes from just
saying, "Oh, pretty please, stop." You
know, we need to show that there going
to be actual consequences for people who
are discriminating against whites in
America.
But isn't there then
it isn't there at least a certain
limitation
on that kind of organization imposed by
the reality that white people as a
category is
I mean, look, all all these categories
are insanely diverse, right?
>> [clears throat]
>> Of course. White liberals have become
more radicalized on racial issues. You
can see this in the polling data, right?
Um but what that means to me, right, is
that there just is sort of an inherent
dead end, a kind of absurdity, right, to
certain forms of white culture that I
think was honestly reflected in some of
the back and forth in your interview.
Like, you know, I again, I'm from New
England. I go to Maine in the summer.
Right.
>> Right, not for just for a little a
little while, just to be clear, right?
I'm not on not on a, you know, yacht
I'm not
>> in Kennebunkport, right?
Um I'm yeah, near my lobster fisherman
cousins, mostly. But, you know, Maine is
one of the whitest states in the union.
It is also
uh a extremely progressive environment.
Not the whole whole state state is
divided. There's white working-class
voters
>> downstate is more progressive. Downstate
is it's progressive and that's white
culture, right? If there is any white
culture, isn't that white culture?
>> Well, I I I agree and this is why I
don't use the term, right? Like I mean,
again, it was a it was pinned on me at
the Senate hearing.
But I I do think that there's some
validity in it. I mean, that's kind of
where I wound up in reading the
subsequent internet debate, but it's not
the best term.
>> was Well, and there was Yeah, and
>> And it's not the term that I use.
>> Cuz in that internet debate, there
really were a bunch of people, not all,
you know, in the furthest reaches of the
right, who wanted to come out and sort
of defend the notion that, okay, Yeah.
>> you know, historic American culture, we
should describe this as white culture.
And again, I I followed the ins and outs
of that debate. It It definitely
reflected, I think, yeah, a real sort of
impulse on the right to respond to
anti-white discrimination with a kind of
more self-conscious white identity
politics.
>> Yeah, I mean, what I'm interested in
most is like stopping the formal
discrimination. Okay, that's what I want
to stop. Okay?
>> After that, it gets much messier. I
mean, again, my The book I'm working on
right now is got the working title,
"What's the Matter with Minnesota?" And
I chose that a year ago, by the way. Uh
listeners just like you will recognize
that as an allusion to Thomas Frank's
book, "What's the Matter with Kansas?"
But what I'm essentially doing is
looking at white liberals
and white leftists, and why, from my
view, they've gone so insane, and what
the consequences are
for the country, cuz I really do think
that they're, in many ways, the biggest
impediment right now to coming to a more
sane
kind of truce on a lot of these issues.
Um and they're not showing a lot of
signs to me of putting the woke away, as
they say. So, But there is, I think, at
least some
tension in the argument you're making.
In just just in the sense that if that
is reality, right? If
if a big part of like what whiteness in
America means is liberal progressive
far-left politics, right? Then guess
what? You, as a white conservative,
are stuck with a landscape in which your
politics, your perspective can only be
>> Yeah. instantiated if uh you know,
you've got a bunch of non-whites on your
side.
>> So,
there's a version of Jeremy Carl, right?
Who would say, "Good news, the American
culture of the 1950s, baseball, hot
dogs, and so on, it encompasses
minorities and united this, you know,
multiracial conservatism, which is just
Americanism, can, you know, sort of
m- defeat or hold back progressivism.
But at the same time, there's also a
part of your argument that is extremely
solicitous towards conservative white
Americans for whom what they're freaked
out about isn't Right.
>> white libs in Minnesota, white liberals
in Maine, but you know, people whose
skin color is different, people whose
cultures are different, and so on.
>> Can you reconcile those two views? I
think you can, but of course it's
inherently messy. And I should mention,
I mean, of the young people, certainly
like young white men have been huge fans
of the book, but I've had tons of young
minority folks come up to me and say,
"Yes, we see the same thing. It's a
problem,
um and you know, we're glad that you're
speaking up about it." So, I actually do
think this is very optimistic element,
right? I do think that at the same time,
like it is I absolutely do have sympathy
to um this notion that we're changing
too quickly. I've called for a net zero
immigration. I'm not running away from
that or apologizing for it. I think we
need a long pause to reconstitute um
what this country is, what our new
identity is going to be. The Democrats
are obviously totally opposed to that in
every way. And you know, we have a just
a fundamental impasse. But I absolutely
think that we need to have
ultimately, if if we're going to
succeed, a multiethnic coalition around
American identity.
Um and and that's just that's going to
have to happen.
Is Is okay if that
if the deal that is offered to white
people by that coalition is to say,
"Number one, we are going to reduce the
burden of legal discrimination that you
favor, but number two,
you need to not throw around terms like
heritage American and be a little more
chill about the realities of ethnic
diversity that aren't going away?" I I
think some element of that is going to
have to be the truth that we're going to
work out. Hopefully, I mean, but to do
that we have to beat the left's version.
Because I think the left's version is
just incompatible with a peaceful
civilization. I mean, it's not
it's just an empirical judgment on my
part. I'm not making a moral judgment. I
just don't think that what the left
wants to do is going to lead to anything
other than um incredible amounts of
racial strife and anger and societal um
uh dislocation, right? So, I just what
I'm hoping is
a group of us beat that vision, and then
we're going to have to negotiate exactly
along the lines of
what you're saying. And I certainly do
tell, especially uh some younger people
who I see getting a little bit out of
line, I'll say like, you know, Here and
here and there. Yeah. Here and there,
I'll say like, they don't always listen.
Um
but uh I say, you know, this is not
a productive way to talk about these
issues either publicly or privately. Um
and I think that it's it is going to be
that negotiation, but I think the good
news is like
that's what's going to win. I mean,
either the country is going to lose as a
whole or some version of what you're
just talking about is going to win. Uh
cuz it's the we're not we're not going
back to the 1950s.
We're going to have to reconstitute.
There's a ton of patriotic people I know
of every possible ethnic background who
want to make that happen. And that's
going to be, I hope, the negotiation for
our future polity, what it's going to
look like.
>> Last last question then. It is the 2050s
or the 2070s or something, you know,
some future point where we have kind of
achieved
a greater consensus than we have now. We
have a kind of restored sense of
American identity that's different from
the 1950s, but has commonalities.
What does that look like? Cuz we've
talked a lot about
American [snorts] identity as distinct
from white identity or racial identity.
What What are just like the four
pillars, the non-negotiables of
American-ness that you would want to see
endure? So, I I think freedom, but
within a sense of community. I mean, not
not sort of being out there as a
libertine all by yourself, but but but
kind of the the combination of those two
things. I think America's directness has
always been a great um boon. I would
love to see a religious sense return
much more to the mainstream of American
culture. I think that that's incredibly
important. Um and I think just a sense
of of patriotism. I think that the
American experiment is an incredible,
unique experiment. I am not just a
critical American, but I think that
what we've accomplished here is
incredibly unique. And we should be
proud of that. I want every American to
be proud of that. I want us to preserve
it. All right. Jeremy Carl, thank you
for joining me. Thanks so much, Ross.
It's a pleasure to talk to you.